## Engaging audiences with interactive 3D web content

### Ross McKegney

__Summary:__
When the first iPhone was released in 2007, Jobs announced it as a "breakthrough Internet communications device". Apple was making a huge bet on the mobile web, giving users unadulterated access to any web content, on the go. The technical challenges of delivering web content solved, creative teams set to work optimizing the user experience of consuming mobile content. After a brief dark ages of m.dot sites, responsive design with progressive enhancement emerged. The iPhone also introduced the masses to multi-touch. Game studios and interactive agencies quickly realized that they could deliver far richer experiences as native apps than they could by sticking to the limitations of HTML5. Engines like Unity emerged, bringing audio and video, along with interactive 3d graphics, to native experiences. Fast forward seven years, and responsive design is mainstream, as are audience expectations of touch-friendly rich interactive content. And we’re seeing the first hints at the convergence of these two worlds - the first web applications that blend native performance with web scale, leveraging emerging open standards for graphics, processing, networking, audio, and video. The next era of the web will be defined by the migration of rich interactive content from the siloed realm of native apps. This isn't just for novelty or because we can. Interactive content provides new navigation and interaction mechanisms that can be an order of magnitude more effective at conveying messages and engaging audiences. There are tremendous opportunities if we can bring these lessons from native to the web. The time is now.

---
